Just Another Virtual Accelerator
JAVA
Java is a popular programming language, created in 1995.
It is owned by Oracle, and more than 3 billion devices run Java.
JAVA is built with the concepts of Object Oriented Programming
that revolve around real life entities.
It Is Used For:
● Mobile applications (specially Android apps)
● Desktop applications
● Web applications
● Web servers and application servers
● Games
● Database connection
● And much, much more!
Uses Of JAVA
● Java works on different platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux,
Raspberry Pi, etc.)
● It is one of the most popular programming language in the
world
● It has a large demand in the current job market
● It is easy to learn and simple to use
● It is open-source and free
● It is secure, fast and powerful
● It has a huge community support (tens of millions of
developers)
● Java is an object oriented language which gives a clear
structure to programs and allows code to be reused,
lowering development costs
● As Java is close to C++ and C#, it makes it easy for
programmers to switch to Java or vice versa
How To Install JAVA?
● To check if you have Java installed on a Windows PC,
search in the start bar for Java or type the following in
Command Prompt (cmd.exe):
Java -version
● If Java is installed,you will get some information of
java
If you do not have Java installed on your computer, you can
download it for free at oracle.com.
What Is JAVA JDK?
The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a cross-platformed
software development environment that offers a collection of
tools and libraries necessary for developing Java-based software
applications and applets. It is a core package used in Java, along
with the JVM (Java Virtual Machine)_ and the JRE (Java Runtime
Environment).
What Is JAVA JVM?
JVM(Java Virtual Machine) acts as a run-time engine to run
Java applications. JVM is the one that actually calls the main
method present in a java code. JVM is a part of JRE(Java Runtime
Environment). Java applications are called WORA (Write Once
Run Anywhere).
What Is JAVA JRE?
Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is an open-access software
distribution that has a Java class library, specific tools, and a
separate JVM. JRE is one of the interrelated components in the
Java Development Kit (JDK).
What Are Methods In JAVA?
Java Method is a collection of statements that perform some
specific task and return the result to the caller.Methods in Java
allow us to reuse the code without retyping the code.
What Are Classes?
Class is a set of objects which shares common
characteristics/ behaviour and common properties/
attributes.Class is not a real world entity. It is just a template or
blueprint or prototype from which objects are created.Class does
not occupy memory.Class is a group of variables of different data
types and group of methods.
Name: Sharukhesh P.G.
Grade: 8
Section: Topaz
Subject: Computer Science (Practical)
